two UK ministers will present evidence
to defend the government at a business
and trade Committee hearing on arms
exports to Israel let's go live straight
away to Sonia GGA who's outside
Westminster and Sonia tell us more about
why this hearing has been called and
what we expect to hear from both
sides well it's it's becoming more of a
process where uh the British uh export
licenses the arms licenses to Israel are
coming under increased scrutiny and not
least because there was that letter that
was signed among them by uh former
justices of the Supreme Court that
questions uh what the UK's role is in
this and what it it can do to avoid uh
any accusations of playing any part in
breaching International humanitarian law
and one of those justices and the
signatories of that letter was indeed
presenting uh statements to uh the
committee
uh that is taking place and he said
basically that the two uh the arguments
hinge on two accounts whether it's
ascertaining on the looking at the uh
findings of the the provisional findings
of the icj that were made on the 26th of
January looking at how Palestinians are
a distinct group who are perfectly
entitled to protection and also the
scale of Civilian loss and the Damage uh
that is also being done to civilian uh
destruction now there is in his words
evidence of a genocidal intent with
regard to statements that had been made
from members of the Israeli government
and the fact and the circumstances would
seem to apply to what the icj have put
in that provisional account now that of
course was counted uh by lawyers for
Israel and Natasha hdor was presenting
that argument putting questions on the
plausibility of that civilian count
stating that up to a third of the
casualties could not be accounted for
and that there doesn't seem to be any
distinction between combatants and
civilians but of course while that is
being acted out it is the UN as Jonathan
sumption the the lawyer who has been the
signatur of that letter uh saying that
it is the the UN agencies and The Who
that are looking at that and that's the
evidence that they're relying on all
right so and what's the government been
saying about all of
this well the government has been
maintaining its stance that what it has
been doing has been perfectly legal and
that it has been taking a look at those
export licenses but a high court uh
ruling on on that earlier this week has
seen that there has been evidence
presented that David Cameron the foreign
secretary has renewed licenses on the
8th of April uh there was a letter that
stated that certainly the processes
could be improved and that is certainly
being questioned by other ministers of
the government stating that there
certainly isn't any International
consensus that such uh careful look at
these uh export licenses uh would indeed
be able to prevent the UK from being
drawn into accusations of partaking in
any potential breaches of international
humanitarian law and looking at
countries such as Italy which have
already suspended those export licenses
it is stressing that the UK would need
to look more at what it is doing and how
it is continuing to sell those licenses
without breaching those laws all right
we'll see how that hearing pans out as a
day goes on thanks
Ona make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from alaz